=========
Changelog
=========

0.3.0 (Unreleased)
------------------
Contributors to this version: Sarah-Claude Bourdeau-Goulet (:user:`Sarahclaude`), Pascal Bourgault (:user:`aulemahal`), Trevor James Smith (:user:`Zeitsperre`), Juliette Lavoie (:user:`juliettelavoie`), Gabriel Rondeau-Genesse (:user:`RondeauG`).

New features and enhancements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* New function hatchmap (:pull:`107`).
* Support for translating figures. Activating a locale through xclim's ``metadata_locales`` option will try to use metadata saved by `xclim` or xscen in this locale and to translate common terms appearing in the figures. Figanos currently ships with French translations of those terms. (:pull:`109`, :issue:`64`).
* New ``figanos.Logos`` class added to manage and install logos stored in user's Home configuration directory. The ``figanos.utils.plot_logo`` function call signature has changed to support the new system. (:issue:`115`, :pull:`119`).
* Logo sizing and placement now depends on `scikit-image` for resizing, and uses `width` and `height` instead of `zoom`. (:issue:`123`, :pull:`119`).
* Logo plotting now supports both PNG and SVG file types (via `cairosvg`). (:pull:`119`).
* Use small geojson in the notebook. (:pull:`124`).
* Add the Colours of Figanos page (:issue:`126`, :pull:`127`).

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
* Fixed issue with the `Manifest.in` not bundling a YAML file loaded on import. (:pull:`118`).

Internal changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* Clean up of the dependencies to remove the notebooks deps from the core deps.
* `figanos` now uses Trusted Publishing to publish the package on PyPI and TestPyPI. (:pull:`113`).
* The official Ouranos logos have been removed from the repository. They can now be installed if required via the ``figanos.Logos.install_ouranos_logos`` class method. (:issue:`115`, :pull:`119`).
* Documentation adjustments. (:pull:`121`):
    * Added a few `pre-commit` hooks for cleaning up notebooks and ensuring that docstrings are properly formatted.
    * Cleaned up the docstrings of a few functions, added some module-level strings, minor typo fixes.
    * Set `nbsphinx` in the documentation to always run (with th exception of one complex cell).
    * The `environment.yml` Python version is set to 3.11 to reduce the dependency solver complexity.

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
* Fixed an issue with the `divergent` argument getting ignored (:pull:`132`).

0.2.0 (2023-06-19)
------------------
Contributors to this version: Sarah-Claude Bourdeau-Goulet (:user:`Sarahclaude`), Trevor James Smith (:user:`Zeitsperre`), Juliette Lavoie (:user:`juliettelavoie`).

New features and enhancements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* Improved documentation to reduce warnings, now using the `sphinx-book-theme`. (:pull:`97`, :pull:`98`).
* Python3.7 support has been dropped. (:pull:`100`).

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
* Fixed issue in environment.yml that was installing two versions of cartopy. (:pull:`97`).

Internal changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* Updated autogenerated boilerplate (Ouranosinc/cookiecutter-pypackage) via `cruft`. (:pull:`100`):
    * General updates to pre-commit hooks, development dependencies, documentation.
    * Added configurations for Pull Request and Issues templates, Zenodo.
    * Documentation now makes use of sphinx directives for usernames, issues, and pull request hyperlinks (via `sphinx.ext.extlinks`).
    * GitHub Workflows have been added for automated testing, and publishing.
    * Some sphinx extensions have been added/enabled (`sphinx-codeautolink`, `sphinx-copybutton`).
    * Automated testing with `tox` now updated to use v4.0+ conventions.
    * Removed all references to `travis.ci`.

0.1.0 (2023-06-08)
------------------
Contributors to this version: Sarah-Claude Bourdeau-Goulet (:user:`Sarahclaude`), Alexis Beaupré-Laperrière (:user:`Beauprel`), Trevor James Smith (:user:`Zeitsperre`), Juliette Lavoie (:user:`juliettelavoie`).

* First release on PyPI.
